Hi Julia,

This is the first time I make such a review,
so I am not quite sure about the order etc.


The review itself:


The paper is not ground breaking, but I do think it is
worthwhile, sound, and also quite interesting
to read, so I would definitely recommend it.

It describes a Smalltalk implementation
on the Lego-NXT embedded platform.
There already exists other compact Smalltalk implementations,
but this adds something new by opening more up towards
end-user programming via the integration with Squeak.



Some questions and suggestions:

With regard to the bytecode interpreter, it
could have been elaborated a bit how it is implemented,
- is it token threaded, or a switch-statement or some
more complex decoding exploiting the packed representation?

Java seems to be mentioned as a dynamic language, (page 1 and 10)
- dynamic in which sense?

Regarding the evaluation, it would have been interesting
to see how it compares to other systems, for example:
microbenchmarks vs. other languages on the NXT (pbLua etc.),
space usage of bytecodes, vs. intermediate code representation
in other smalltalk systems.
Another measure could be how many cycles per executed bytecode.
Instead I think that there might be a bit to much focus on the effects of compilerflags (thumb&optim).

Perhaps also mention why a stack based virtual machine is used rather than a register based one.

I think section 3.2.* could be elaborated whereas section 3.1.* might be a bit to detailed.



Microbenchmarks with other high-level languages on nxt would be nice, e.g. microbenchmarks vs. pblua or similar.
Comparison vs oovm would also be good, and a bit of elaboration on differences.

Arm-thumb-optim does not seem particular relevant.

sounds like focus is on end-user programming
clock-cycles-per-dispatch

use of flash, ..., not obvious at first read through, - limited number of writecycles.
Not ground breaking,
p.1, col 2, top: java & android dynamic languages?


----------------------
I will review the paper as well, so from you I would only be interested in
your assessment of eg the originality, feasibility, etc of the approach.
I would need the review by the end of the month.


---------------------
Cover letter
Summary
general comments
- technical
- writing & presentation
ocnstructive critique
typos &c.

-------
correctness, significantiance, innovation, interest, timeliness, succintness, accessability,eleganvem readability, style, polish